+++
title = "[1] Establishing Goals"
date = 2023-08-17T17:04:41+03:00
draft = false
+++

## Introduction

For the "A Guide to 3D Printing" bundle, the idea is to create a practical guide for people who currently view 3D printing as a black box that creates their desired 3D models in real life.

You may check out the current posts [here](/projects/3dp).

## Initial Difficulties

For basically all my life, I've always been the learner, never the teacher.

While trying to compile my knowledge into articles, the biggest difficulty I had was with structuring. Since pieces of knowledge tend to be connected with other pieces of knowledge in a web-like way, it is very tricky to structure everything such that the knowledge can be understood linearly.

Additionally, another issue I kept running into is using jargon that I hadn't yet introduced to the reader.

### Takeaway 1

In the beginning, I tried to assume that the user already knows how to design a 3D model, how to slice a file, and how to print their desired model. However, when I considered who might read my article, I realized that assuming everyone's baseline knowledge might lead to complications further down the line, so I decided to rewrite the first couple modules such that they require no prerequisite knowledge.

### Takeaway 2

While writing the first module, I realized that I also need to take into account how I retrieve my knowledge. Structuring everything mentally with the learner in mind is slowing things down a lot since I have a spend more time thinking than writing.

I've come up with a compromise, which is a two-pass method. In the first pass, I would "blurt" everything I know into the modules in the order they come to mind in, then the second pass would be for structuring the information once I've already extracted it out of me.
